Three years ago I was on my way out to the East, and as an extra day in London
was of some importance, I took the Friday evening mail-train to Brindisi instead
of the usual Thursday morning Marseilles express. Many people shrink from the
long forty-eight-hour train journey through Europe, and the subsequent rush
across the Mediterranean on the nineteen-knot Isis or Osiris; but there is
really very little discomfort on either the train or the mail-boat, and unless
there is actually nothing for me to do, I always like to save the extra day and
a half in London before I say goodbye to her for one of my longer tramps. This
time--it was early, I remember, in the shipping season, probably about the
beginning of September--there were few passengers, and I had a compartment in
the P. & O. Indian express to myself all the way from Calais. All Sunday I
watched the blue waves dimpling the Adriatic, and the pale rosemary along the
cuttings; the plain white towns, with their flat roofs and their bold "duomos,"
and the grey-green gnarled olive orchards of Apulia. The journey was just like
any other. We ate in the dining-car as often and as long as we decently could.
We slept after luncheon; we dawdled the afternoon away with yellow-backed
novels; sometimes we exchanged platitudes in the smoking-room, and it was there
that I met Alastair Colvin.

     Colvin was a man of middle height, with a resolute, well-cut jaw; his hair
was turning grey; his moustache was sun-whitened, otherwise he was
clean-shaven--obviously a gentleman, and obviously also a pre-occupied man. He
had no great wit. When spoken to, he made the usual remarks in the right way,
and I dare say he refrained from banalities only because he spoke less than the
rest of us; most of the time he buried himself in the Wagon-lit Company's
time-table, but seemed unable to concentrate his attention on any one page of
it. He found that I had been over the Siberian railway, and for a quarter of an
hour he discussed it with me. Then he lost interest in it, and rose to go to his
compartment. But he came back again very soon, and seemed glad to pick up the
conversation again.

     Of course this did not seem to me to be of any importance. Most travellers
by train become a trifle infirm of purpose after thirty-six hours' rattling. But
Colvin's restless way I noticed in somewhat marked contrast with the man's
personal importance and dignity; especially ill suited was it to his finely made
large hand with strong, broad, regular nails and its few lines. As I looked at
his hand I noticed a long, deep, and recent scar of ragged shape. However, it is
absurd to pretend that I thought anything was unusual. I went off at five
o'clock on Sunday afternoon to sleep away the hour or two that had still to be
got through before we arrived at Brindisi.

     Once there, we few passengers transhipped our hand baggage, verified our
berths--there were only a score of us in all--and then, after an aimless ramble
of half an hour in Brindisi, we returned to dinner at the Httel International,
not wholly surprised that the town had been the death of Virgil. If I remember
rightly, there is a gaily painted hall at the International--I do not wish to
advertise anything, but there is no other place in Brindisi at which to await
the coming of the mails--and after dinner I was looking with awe at a trellis
overgrown with blue vines, when Colvin moved across the room to my table. He
picked up Il Secolo, but almost immediately gave up the pretence of reading it.
He turned squarely to me and said:

     "Would you do me a favour?"

     One doesn't do favours to stray acquaintances on Continental expresses
without knowing something more of them than I knew of Colvin. But I smiled in a
noncommittal way, and asked him what he wanted. I wasn't wrong in part of my
estimate of him; he said bluntly:

     "Will you let me sleep in your cabin on the Osiris?" And he coloured a
little as he said it.

     Now, there is nothing more tiresome than having to put up with a
stable-companion at sea, and I asked him rather pointedly:

     "Surely there is room for all of us?" I thought that perhaps he had been
partnered off with some mangy Levantine, and wanted to escape from him at all
hazards.

     Colvin, still somewhat confused, said: "Yes; I am in a cabin by myself. But
you would do me the greatest favour if you would allow me to share yours."

     This was all very well, but, besides the fact that I always sleep better
when alone, there had been some recent thefts on board English liners, and I
hesitated, frank and honest and self-conscious as Colvin was. Just then the
mail-train came in with a clatter and a rush of escaping steam, and I asked him
to see me again about it on the boat when we started. He answered me curtly--I
suppose he saw the mistrust in my manner--"I am a member of White's. I smiled to
myself as he said it, but I remembered in a moment that the man--if he were
really what he claimed to be, and I make no doubt that he was--must have been
sorely put to it before he urged the fact as a guarantee of his respectability
to a total stranger at a Brindisi hotel.

     That evening, as we cleared the red and green harbour-lights of Brindisi,
Colvin explained. This is his story in his own words.

 "When I was travelling in India some years ago, I made the acquaintance of a
youngish man in the Woods and Forests. We camped out together for a week, and I
found him a pleasant companion. John Broughton was a light-hearted soul when off
duty, but a steady and capable man in any of the small emergencies that
continually arise in that department. He was liked and trusted by the natives,
and though a trifle over-pleased with himself when he escaped to civilisation at
Simla or Calcutta, Broughton's future was well assured in Government service,
when a fair-sized estate was unexpectedly left to him, and he joyfully shook the
dust of the Indian plains from his feet and returned to England. For five years
he drifted about London. I saw him now and then. We dined together about every
eighteen months, and I could trace pretty exactly the gradual sickening of
Broughton with a merely idle life. He then set out on a couple of long voyages,
returned as restless as before, and at last told me that he had decided to marry
and settle down at his place, Thurnley Abbey, which had long been empty. He
spoke about looking after the property and standing for his constituency in the
usual way. Vivien Wilde, his fianc√©e, had, I suppose, begun to take him in hand.
She was a pretty girl with a deal of fair hair and rather an exclusive manner;
deeply religious in a narrow school, she was still kindly and high-spirited, and
I thought that Broughton was in luck. He was quite happy and full of information
about his future.

     "Among other things, I asked him about Thurnley Abbey. He confessed that he
hardly knew the place. The last tenant, a man called Clarke, had lived in one
wing for fifteen years and seen no one. He had been a miser and a hermit. It was
the rarest thing for a light to be seen at the Abbey after dark. Only the barest
necessities of life were ordered, and the tenant himself received them at the
side-door. His one half-caste manservant, after a month's stay in the house, had
abruptly left without warning, and had returned to the Southern States. One
thing Broughton complained bitterly about: Clarke had wilfully spread the rumour
among the villagers that the Abbey was haunted, and had even condescended to
play childish tricks with spirit-lamps and salt in order to scare trespassers
away at night. He had been detected in the act of this tomfoolery, but the story
spread, and no one, said Broughton, would venture near the house except in broad
daylight. The hauntedness of Thurnley Abbey was now, he said with a grin, part
of the gospel of the countryside, but he and his young wife were going to change
all that. Would I propose myself any time I liked? I, of course, said I would,
and equally, of course, intended to do nothing of the sort without a definite
invitation.

     "The house was put in thorough repair, though not a stick of the old
furniture and tapestry were removed. Floors and ceilings were relaid: the roof
was made watertight again, and the dust of half a century was scoured out. He
showed me some photographs of the place. It was called an Abbey, though as a
matter of fact it had been only the infirmary of the long-vanished Abbey of
Clouster some five miles away. The larger part of the building remained as it
had been in pre-Reformation days, but a wing had been added in Jacobean times,
and that part of the house had been kept in something like repair by Mr. Clarke.
He had in both the ground and first floors set a heavy timber door, strongly
barred with iron, in the passage between the earlier and the Jacobean parts of
the house, and had entirely neglected the former. So there had been a good deal
of work to be done.

     "Broughton, whom I saw in London two or three times about this period, made
a deal of fun over the positive refusal of the workmen to remain after sundown.
Even after the electric light had been put into every room, nothing would induce
them to remain, though, as Broughton observed, electric light was death on
ghosts. The legend of the Abbey's ghosts had gone far and wide, and the men
would take no risks. They went home in batches of five and six, and even during
the daylight hours there was an inordinate amount of talking between one and
another, if either happened to be out of sight of his companion. On the whole,
though nothing of any sort or kind had been conjured up even by their heated
imaginations during their five months' work upon the Abbey, the belief in the
ghosts was rather strengthened than otherwise in Thurnley because of the men's
confessed nervousness, and local tradition declared itself in favour of the
ghost of an immured nun.

     "'Good old nun!' said Broughton.

     "I asked him whether in general he believed in the possibility of ghosts,
and, rather to my surprise, he said that he couldn't say he entirely disbelieved
in them. A man in India had told him one morning in camp that he believed that
his mother was dead in England, as her vision had come to his tent the night
before. He had not been alarmed, but had said nothing, and the figure vanished
again. As a matter of fact, the next possible dak-walla brought on a telegram
announcing the mother's death. 'There the thing was,' said Broughton. But at
Thurnley he was practical enough. He roundly cursed the idiotic selfishness of
Clarke, whose silly antics had caused all the inconvenience. At the same time,
he couldn't refuse to sympathise to some extent with the ignorant workmen. 'My
own idea,' said he, 'is that if a ghost ever does come in one's way, one ought
to speak to it.'

     "I agreed. Little as I knew of the ghost world and its conventions, I had
always remembered that a spook was in honour bound to wait to be spoken to. It
didn't seem much to do, and I felt that the sound of one's own voice would at
any rate reassure oneself as to one's wakefulness. But there are few ghosts
outside Europe--few, that is, that a white man can see--and I had never been
troubled with any. However, as I have said, I told Broughton that I agreed.

     "So the wedding took place, and I went to it in a tall hat which I bought
for the occasion, and the new Mrs. Broughton smiled very nicely at me
afterwards. As it had to happen, I took the Orient Express that evening and was
not in England again for nearly six months. Just before I came back I got a
letter from Broughton. He asked if I could see him in London or come to
Thurnley, as he thought I should be better able to help him than anyone else he
knew. His wife sent a nice message to me at the end, so I was reassured about at
least one thing. I wrote from Budapest that I would come and see him at Thurnley
two days after my arrival in London, and as I sauntered out of the Pannonia into
the Kerepesi Utcza to post my letters, I wondered of what earthly service I
could be to Broughton. I had been out with him after tiger on foot, and I could
imagine few men better able at a pinch to manage their own business. However, I
had nothing to do, so after dealing with some small accumulations of business
during my absence, I packed a kit-bag and departed to Euston.

     "I was met by Broughton's great limousine at Thurnley Road station, and
after a drive of nearly seven miles we echoed through the sleepy streets of
Thurnley village, into which the main gates of the park thrust themselves,
splendid with pillars and spread-eagles and tom-cats rampant atop of them. I
never was a herald, but I know that the Broughtons have the right to
supporters--Heaven knows why! From the gates a quadruple avenue of beech-trees
led inwards for a quarter of a mile. Beneath them a neat strip of fine turf
edged the road and ran back until the poison of the dead beech-leaves killed it
under the trees. There were many wheel-tracks on the road, and a comfortable
little pony trap jogged past me laden with a country parson and his wife and
daughter. Evidently there was some garden party going on at the Abbey. The road
dropped away to the right at the end of the avenue, and I could see the Abbey
across a wide pasturage and a broad lawn thickly dotted with guests.

     "The end of the building was plain. It must have been almost mercilessly
austere when it was first built, but time had crumbled the edges and toned the
stone down to an orange-lichened grey wherever it showed behind its curtain of
magnolia, jasmine, and ivy. Farther on was the three-storied Jacobean house,
tall and handsome. There had not been the slightest attempt to adapt the one to
the other, but the kindly ivy had glossed over the touching-point. There was a
tall flhche in the middle of the building, surmounting a small bell tower.
Behind the house there rose the mountainous verdure of Spanish chestnuts all the
way up the hill.

     "Broughton had seen me coming from afar, and walked across from his other
guests to welcome me before turning me over to the butler's care. This man was
sandy-haired and rather inclined to be talkative. He could, however, answer
hardly any questions about the house; he had, he said, only been there three
weeks. Mindful of what Broughton had told me, I made no inquiries about ghosts,
though the room into which I was shown might have justified anything. It was a
very large low room with oak beams projecting from the white ceiling. Every inch
of the walls, including the doors, was covered with tapestry, and a remarkably
fine Italian fourpost bedstead, heavily draped, added to the darkness and
dignity of the place. All the furniture was old, well made, and dark. Underfoot
there was a plain green pile carpet, the only new thing about the room except
the electric light fittings and the jugs and basins. Even the looking-glass on
the dressing-table was an old pyramidal Venetian glass set in heavy repoussi
frame of tarnished silver.

     "After a few minutes' cleaning up, I went downstairs and out upon the lawn,
where I greeted my hostess. The people gathered there were of the usual country
type, all anxious to be pleased and roundly curious as to the new master of the
Abbey. Rather to my surprise, and quite to my pleasure, I rediscovered Glenham,
whom I had known well in old days in Barotseland: he lived quite close, as, he
remarked with a grin, I ought to have known. 'But,' he added, 'I don't live in a
place like this.' He swept his hand to the long, low lines of the Abbey in
obvious admiration, and then, to my intense interest, muttered beneath his
breath, 'Thank God!' He saw that I had overheard him, and turning to me said
decidedly, 'Yes, "thank God"' I said, and I meant it. I wouldn't live at the
Abbey for all Broughton's money.'

     "'But surely,' I demurred, 'you know that old Clarke was discovered in the
very act of setting light on his bug-a-boos?'

     "Glenham shrugged his shoulders. 'Yes, I know about that. But there is
something wrong with the place still. All I can say is that Broughton is a
different man since he has lived there. I don't believe that he will remain much
longer. But--you're staying here?--well, you'll hear all about it to-night.
There's a big dinner, I understand.' The conversation turned off to old
reminiscences, and Glenham soon after had to go.

     "Before I went to dress that evening I had twenty minutes' talk with
Broughton in his library. There was no doubt that the man was altered, gravely
altered. He was nervous and fidgety, and I found him looking at me only when my
eye was off him. I naturally asked him what he wanted of me. I told him I would
do anything I could, but that I couldn't conceive what he lacked that I could
provide. He said with a lustreless smile that there was, however, something, and
that he would tell me the following morning. It struck me that he was somehow
ashamed of himself, and perhaps ashamed of the part he was asking me to play.
However, I dismissed the subject from my mind and went up to dress in my
palatial room. As I shut the door a draught blew out the Queen of Sheba from the
wall, and I noticed that the tapestries were not fastened to the wall at the
bottom. I have always held very practical views about spooks, and it has often
seemed to me that the slow waving in firelight of loose tapestry upon a wall
would account for ninety-nine per cent. of the stories one hears. Certainly the
dignified undulation of this lady with her attendants and huntsmen--one of whom
was untidily cutting the throat of a fallow deer upon the very steps on which
King Solomon, a grey-faced Flemish nobleman with the order of the Golden Fleece,
awaited his fair visitor--gave colour to my hypothesis.

     "Nothing much happened at dinner. The people were very much like those of
the garden party. A young woman next me seemed anxious to know what was being
read in London. As she was far more familiar than I with the most recent
magazines and literary supplements, I found salvation in being myself instructed
in the tendencies of modern fiction. All true art, she said, was shot through
and through with melancholy. How vulgar were the attempts at wit that marked so
many modern books! From the beginning of literature it had always been tragedy
that embodied the highest attainment of every age. To call such works morbid
merely begged the question. No thoughtful man--she looked sternly at me through
the steel rim of her glasses--could fail to agree with me. Of course, as one
would, I immediately and properly said that I slept with Pett Ridge and Jacobs
under my pillow at night, and that if Jorrocks weren't quite so large and
cornery, I would add him to the company. She hadn't read any of them, so I was
saved--for a time. But I remember grimly that she said that the dearest wish of
her life was to be in some awful and soul-freezing situation of horror, and I
remember that she dealt hardly with the hero of Nat Paynter's vampire story,
between nibbles at her brown-bread ice. She was a cheerless soul, and I couldn't
help thinking that if there were many such in the neighbourhood, it was not
surprising that old Glenham had been stuffed with some nonsense or other about
the Abbey. Yet nothing could well have been less creepy than the glitter of
silver and glass, and the subdued lights and cackle of conversation all round
the dinner-table.

     "After the ladies had gone I found myself talking to the rural dean. He was
a thin, earnest man, who at once turned the conversation to old Clarke's
buffooneries. But, he said, Mr. Broughton had introduced such a new and cheerful
spirit, not only into the Abbey, but, he might say, into the whole
neighbourhood, that he had great hopes that the ignorant superstitions of the
past were from henceforth destined to oblivion. Thereupon his other neighbour, a
portly gentleman of independent means and position, audibly remarked 'Amen,'
which damped the rural dean, and we talked to partridges past, partridges
present, and pheasants to come. At the other end of the table Broughton sat with
a couple of his friends, red-faced hunting men. Once I noticed that they were
discussing me, but I paid no attention to it at the time. I remembered it a few
hours later.

     "By eleven all the guests were gone, and Broughton, his wife, and I were
alone together under the fine plaster ceiling of the Jacobean drawing-room. Mrs.
Broughton talked about one or two of the neighbours, and then, with a smile,
said that she knew I would excuse her, shook hands with me, and went off to bed.
I am not very good at analysing things, but I felt that she talked a little
uncomfortably and with a suspicion of effort, smiled rather conventionally, and
was obviously glad to go. These things seem trifling enough to repeat, but I had
throughout the faint feeling that everything was not quite square. Under the
circumstances, this was enough to set me wondering what on earth the service
could be that I was to render--wondering also whether the whole business were
not some ill-advised jest in order to make me come down from London for a mere
shooting-party.

     "Broughton said little after she had gone. But he was evidently labouring
to bring the conversation round to the so-called haunting of the Abbey. As soon
as I saw this, of course I asked him directly about it. He then seemed at once
to lose interest in the matter. There was no doubt about it: Broughton was
somehow a changed man, and to my mind he had changed in no way for the better.
Mrs. Broughton seemed no sufficient cause. He was clearly very fond of her, and
she of him. I reminded him that he was going to tell me what I could do for him
in the morning, pleaded my journey, lighted a candle, and went upstairs with
him. At the end of the passage leading into the old house he grinned weakly and
said, 'Mind, if you see a ghost, do talk to it; you said you would.' He stood
irresolutely a moment and then turned away. At the door of his dressing-room he
paused once more: 'I'm here,' he called out, 'if you should want anything. Good
night,' and he shut the door.

     "I went along the passage to my room, undressed, switched on a lamp beside
my bed, read a few pages of The Jungle Book, and then, more than ready for
sleep, turned the light off and went fast asleep. 

   "Three hours later I woke up. There was not a breath of wind outside. There
was not even a flicker of light from the fireplace. As I lay there, an ash
tinkled slightly as it cooled, but there was hardly a gleam of the dullest red
in the grate. An owl cried among the silent Spanish chestnuts on the slope
outside. I idly reviewed the events of the day, hoping that I should fall off to
sleep again before I reached dinner. But at the end I seemed as wakeful as ever.
There was no help for it. I must read my Jungle Book again till I felt ready to
go off, so I fumbled for the pear at the end of the cord that hung down inside
the bed, and I switched on the bedside lamp. The sudden glory dazzled me for a
moment. I felt under my pillow for my book with half-shut eyes. Then, growing
used to the light, I happened to look down to the foot of my bed.

     "I can never tell you really when happened then. Nothing I could ever
confess in the most abject words could even faintly picture to you what I felt.
I know that my heart stopped dead, and my throat shut automatically. In one
instinctive movement I crouched back up against the head-boards of the bed,
staring at the horror. The movement set my heart going again, and the sweat
dripped from every pore. I am not a particularly religious man, but I had always
believed that God would never allow any supernatural appearance to present
itself to man in such a guise and in such circumstances that harm, either bodily
or mental, could result to him. I can only tell you that at the moment both my
life and my reason rocked unsteadily on their seats." 

The other Osiris passengers had gone to bed. Only he and I remained leaning over
the starboard railing, which rattled uneasily now and then under the fierce
vibration of the over-engined mail-boat. Far over, there were the lights of a
few fishing-smacks riding out the night, and a great rush of white combing and
seething water fell out and away from us overside.

     At last Colvin went on:

"Leaning over the foot of my bed, looking at me, was a figure swathed in a
rotten and tattered veiling. This shroud passed over the head, but left both
eyes and the right side of the face bare. It then followed the line of the arm
down to where the hand grasped the bed-end. The face was not entirely that of a
skull, though the eyes and the flesh of the face were totally gone. There was a
thin, dry skin drawn tightly over the features, and there was some skin left on
the hand. One wisp of hair crossed the forehead. It was perfectly still. I
looked at it, and it looked at me, and my brains turned dry and hot in my head.
I had still got the pear of the electric lamp in my hand, and I played idly with
it; only I dared not turn the light out again. I shut my eyes, only to open them
in a hideous terror the same second. The thing had not moved. My heart was
thumping, and the sweat cooled me as it evaporated. Another cinder tinkled in
the grate, and a panel creaked in the wall.

     "My reason failed me. For twenty minutes, or twenty seconds, I was able to
think of nothing else but this awful figure, till there came, hurtling through
the empty channels of my senses, the remembrances that Broughton and his friends
had discussed me furtively at dinner. The dim possibility of its being a hoax
stole gratefully into my unhappy mind, and once there, one's pluck came creeping
back along a thousand tiny veins. My first sensation was one of blind
unreasoning thankfulness that my brain was going to stand the trial. I am not a
timid man, but the best of us needs some human handle to steady him in time of
extremity, and in this faint but growing hope that after all it might be only a
brutal hoax, I found the fulcrum that I needed. At last I moved.

     "How I managed to do it I cannot tell you, but with one spring towards the
foot of the bed I got within arm's-length and struck out one fearful blow with
my fist at the thing. It crumbled under it, and my hand was cut to the bone.
With a sickening revulsion after my terror, I dropped half-fainting across the
end of the bed. So it was merely a foul trick after all. No doubt the trick had
been played many a time before: no doubt Broughton and his friends had had some
large bet among themselves as to what I should do when I discovered the gruesome
thing. From my state of abject terror I found myself transported into an
insensate anger. I shouted curses upon Broughton. I dived rather than climbed
over the bed-end of the sofa. I tore at the robed skeleton--how well the whole
thing had been carried out, I thought--I broke the skull against the floor, and
stamped upon its dry bones. I flung the head away under the bed, and rent the
brittle bones of the trunk in pieces. I snapped the thin thigh-bones across my
knee, and flung them in different directions. The shin-bones I set up against a
stool and broke with my heel. I raged like a Berserker against the loathly
thing, and stripped the ribs from the backbone and slung the breastbone against
the cupboard. My fury increased as the work of destruction went on. I tore the
frail rotten veil into twenty pieces, and the dust went up over everything, over
the clean blotting-paper and the silver inkstand. At last my work was done.
There was but a raffle of broken bones and strips of parchment and crumbling
wool. Then, picking up a piece of the skull--it was the cheek and temple bone of
the right side, I remember--I opened the door and went down the passage to
Broughton's dressing-room. I remember still how my sweat-dripping pyjamas clung
to me as I walked. At the door I kicked and entered.

     "Broughton was in bed. He had already turned the light on and seemed
shrunken and horrified. For a moment he could hardly pull himself together. Then
I spoke. I don't know what I said. Only I know that from a heart full and
over-full with hatred and contempt, spurred on by shame of my own recent
cowardice, I let my tongue run on. He answered nothing. I was amazed at my own
fluency. My hair still clung lankily to my wet temples, my hand was bleeding
profusely, and I must have looked a strange sight. Broughton huddled himself up
at the head of the bed just as I had. Still he made no answer, no defence. He
seemed preoccupied with something besides my reproaches, and once or twice
moistened his lips with his tongue. But he could say nothing though he moved his
hands now and then, just as a baby who cannot speak moves its hands.

     "At last the door into Mrs. Broughton's rooms opened and she came in, white
and terrified. 'What is it? What is it? Oh, in God's name! what is it?' she
cried again and again, and then she went up to her husband and sat on the bed in
her night-dress, and the two faced me. I told her what the matter was. I spared
her husband not a word for her presence there. Yet he seemed hardly to
understand. I told the pair that I had spoiled their cowardly joke for them.
Broughton looked up.

     "'I have smashed the foul thing into a hundred pieces,' I said. Broughton
licked his lips again and his mouth worked. 'By God!' I shouted, 'it would serve
you right if I thrashed you within an inch of your life. I will take care that
not a decent man or woman of my acquaintance ever speaks to you again. And
there,' I added, throwing the broken piece of the skull upon the floor beside
his bed, 'there is a souvenir for you, of your damned work to-night!'

     "Broughton saw the bone, and in a moment it was his turn to frighten me. He
squealed like a hare caught in a trap. He screamed and screamed till Mrs.
Broughton, almost as bewildered as myself, held on to him and coaxed him like a
child to be quiet. But Broughton--and as he moved I thought that ten minutes ago
I perhaps looked as terribly ill as he did--thrust her from him, and scrambled
out of bed on to the floor, and still screaming put out his hand to the bone. It
had blood on it from my hand. He paid no attention to me whatever. In truth I
said nothing. This was a new turn indeed to the horrors of the evening. He rose
from the floor with the bone in his hand and stood silent. He seemed to be
listening. 'Time, time, perhaps,' he muttered, and almost at the same moment
fell at full length on the carpet, cutting his head against the fender. The bone
flew from his hand and came to rest near the door. I picked Broughton up,
haggard and broken, with blood over his face. He whispered hoarsely and quickly,
'Listen, listen!' We listened.

     "After ten seconds' utter quiet, I seemed to hear something. I could not be
sure, but at last there was no doubt. There was a quiet sound as one moving
along the passage. Little regular steps came towards us over the hard oak
flooring. Broughton moved to where his wife sat, white and speechless, on the
bed, and pressed her face into his shoulder.

     "Then, the last thing that I could see as he turned the light out, he fell
forward with his own head pressed into the pillow of the bed. Something in their
company, something in their cowardice, helped me, and I faced the open doorway
of the room, which was outlined fairly clearly against the dimly lighted
passage. I put out one hand and touched Mrs. Broughton's shoulder in the
darkness. But at the last moment I too failed. I sank on my knees and put my
face in the bed. Only we all heard. The footsteps came to the door and there
they stopped. The piece of bone was lying a yard inside the door. There was a
rustle of moving stuff, and the thing was in the room. Mrs. Broughton was
silent: I could hear Broughton's voice praying, muffled in the pillow: I was
cursing my own cowardice. Then the steps moved out again on the oak boards of
the passage, and I heard the sounds dying away. In a flash of remorse I went to
the door and looked out. At the end of the corridor I thought I saw something
that moved away. A moment later the passage was empty. I stood with my forehead
against the jamb of the door almost physically sick.

     "'You can turn the light on,' I said, and there was an answering flare.
There was no bone at my feet. Mrs. Broughton had fainted. Broughton was almost
useless, and it took me ten minutes to bring her to. Broughton only said one
thing worth remembering. For the most part he went on muttering prayers. But I
was glad afterwards to recollect that he had said that thing. He said in a
colourless voice, half as a question, half as a reproach, 'You didn't speak to
her.'

     "We spent the remainder of the night together. Mrs. Broughton actually fell
off into a kind of sleep before dawn, but she suffered so horribly in her dreams
that I shook her into consciousness again. Never was dawn so long in coming.
Three or four times Broughton spoke to himself. Mrs. Broughton would then just
tighten her hold on his arm, but she could say nothing. As for me, I can
honestly say that I grew worse as the hours passed and the light strengthened.
The two violent reactions had battered down my steadiness of view, and I felt
that the foundations of my life had been built upon the sand. I said nothing,
and after binding up my hand with a towel, I did not move. It was better so.
They helped me and I helped them, and we all three knew that our reason had gone
very near to ruin that night. At last, when the light came in pretty strongly,
and the birds outside were chattering and singing, we felt that we must do
something. Yet we never moved. You might have thought that we should
particularly dislike being found as we were by the servants: yet nothing of that
kind mattered a straw, and an overpowering listlessness bound us as we sat,
until Chapman, Broughton's man, actually knocked and opened the door. None of us
moved. Broughton, speaking hardly and stiffly, said, 'Chapman you can come back
in five minutes.' Chapman, was a discreet man, but it would have made no
difference to us if he had carried his news to the 'room' at once.

     "We looked at each other and I said I must go back. I meant to wait outside
till Chapman returned. I simply dared not re-enter my bedroom alone. Broughton
roused himself and said that he would come with me. Mrs. Broughton agreed to
remain in her own room for five minutes if the blinds were drawn up and all the
doors left open.

     "So Broughton and I, leaning stiffly one against the other, went down to my
room. By the morning light that filtered past the blinds we could see our way,
and I released the blinds. There was nothing wrong with the room from end to
end, except smears of my own blood on the end of the bed, on the sofa, and on
the carpet where I had torn the thing to pieces." 

 Colvin had finished his story. There was nothing to say. Seven bells stuttered
out from the fo'c'sle, and the answering cry wailed through the darkness. I took
him downstairs.

     "Of course I am much better now, but it is a kindness of you to let me
sleep in your cabin. 

